README.md, before:

# Formatter.nvim

**WIP**

A format runner for neovim, written in lua.

## Install

Using your package manager of choice

```vim
" vim-plug
Plug 'mhartington/formatter.nvim'

" dein.nvim
call dein#add('mhartington/formatter.nvim')


" configure the plugin

lua require('formatter').setup(...)
" Provided by setup function
nnoremap <silent> <leader>f :Format<CR>
```

## Configure

By default there are no tools configured. This may change.
To config a tool, you can create a table for the filetype and tool you want to use

If you would like to see a list of some common formatters and how to configure them, checkout [./CONFIG.md](./CONFIG.md).

Each format tool config is a function that returns a table.
Since each entry is a function, the tables for each file type act as an ordered list (or array).
This mean things will run in the order you list them, keep this in mind.

Each formatter should return a table that consist of:

- `exe`: the program you wish to run
- `args`: a table of args to pass
- `stdin`: If it should use stdin or not.
- `cwd` : The path to run the program from.
- `ignore_exitcode` : Set to true if the program expects non-zero success exit code (optional)
- `tempfile_dir`: directory for temp file when not using stdin (optional)
- `tempfile_prefix`: prefix for temp file when not using stdin (optional)
- `tempfile_postfix`: postfix for temp file when not using stdin (optional)

### cwd

The cwd argument can be used for e.g. monolithic projects which contain sources with different styles.
Setting cwd to the path of the file being formatted will cause e.g. `clang-format` to search for the
nearest `.clang-format` file in the file's parent directories.

### Format on save

To enable format on save, you can create a `autocmd` to trigger the formater using `FormatWrite`, which will format and write to the current saved file.

```lua
vim.api.nvim_exec([[
augroup FormatAutogroup
  autocmd!
  autocmd BufWritePost *.js,*.rs,*.lua FormatWrite
augroup END
]], true)
```

Commit message:

feat(): add tempfile_inline and allow lines for ranges (#45)
* Add formatter argument: tempfile_inline
  Use this to let the tool format the whole buffer. This has the
  advantage of keeping the indentation when performing a range format.

* Add formatter argument: range_lines_one_based
  Some tools (clang-format) wants the lines to be 1-based. Have that in
  mind when hinting about the range of lines to be formatted.

* Add dynamic argument substitution of "$start_line" and "$end_line"
  Let the user be able to hint about the range to be formatted to the
  tool by specifying above arguments in the list of "args".

README.md, after:

# Formatter.nvim

**WIP**

A format runner for neovim, written in lua.

## Install

Using your package manager of choice

```vim
" vim-plug
Plug 'mhartington/formatter.nvim'

" dein.nvim
call dein#add('mhartington/formatter.nvim')


" configure the plugin

lua require('formatter').setup(...)
" Provided by setup function
nnoremap <silent> <leader>f :Format<CR>
```

## Configure

By default there are no tools configured. This may change.
To config a tool, you can create a table for the filetype and tool you want to use

If you would like to see a list of some common formatters and how to configure them, checkout [./CONFIG.md](./CONFIG.md).

Each format tool config is a function that returns a table.
Since each entry is a function, the tables for each file type act as an ordered list (or array).
This mean things will run in the order you list them, keep this in mind.

Each formatter should return a table that consist of:

- `exe`: the program you wish to run
- `args`: a table of args to pass
- `stdin`: If it should use stdin or not.
- `cwd` : The path to run the program from.
- `ignore_exitcode` : Set to true if the program expects non-zero success exit code (optional)
- `tempfile_dir`: directory for temp file when not using stdin (optional)
- `tempfile_prefix`: prefix for temp file when not using stdin (optional)
- `tempfile_postfix`: postfix for temp file when not using stdin (optional)
- `tempfile_inline`: Let the format tool operate on the whole buffer of the temp file (optional)
- `range_lines_one_based`: When replacing `$start_line`, convert the line number to be 1-based (optional)

### cwd

The cwd argument can be used for e.g. monolithic projects which contain sources with different styles.
Setting cwd to the path of the file being formatted will cause e.g. `clang-format` to search for the
nearest `.clang-format` file in the file's parent directories.

### tempfile\_inline

This argument is advantages to use with tools that need context to figure out the level of indentations of certain
scopes, e.g. `clang-format`. In particular, when working with ranges, the tool can also be hinted with the range by
setting the `$start_line` and `$end_line`, which will be replaced before triggering the tool.

### Format on save

To enable format on save, you can create a `autocmd` to trigger the formater using `FormatWrite`, which will format and write to the current saved file.

```lua
vim.api.nvim_exec([[
augroup FormatAutogroup
  autocmd!
  autocmd BufWritePost *.js,*.rs,*.lua FormatWrite
augroup END
]], true)
```
